---
laout: Page
title: Micromouse Hardware DBG 2

permalink: microumouse-hw-dbg-2
---

# Power Delivery

On first power on, the low dropout voltage regulators are hot; very hot.
That's bad.
Especially for an LDO, who's whole purpose is to how a low drop across when running.
The issue in short is a short.
After much consideration - and probing with a multimeter - the issue had to be a via or the one plated hole that looks off.

So the first attempt for solving this, is drilling out that odd looking plated hole.
And after checking if the short persists - it does.
Therefore, I'm drilling out all the other plated holes too.

Surprisingly that worked...
How nice, and frustratingly simple.
After powering the whole thing on once again, all the voltages are what they are supposed to be 3.3 V.

# Flashing The MCU

Now on to the next task; flashing a program to the microcontroller.
In retrospective, I should've attached a LED to one of the GPIOs.
Rookie mistake, if I had a LED I could flash the hello world of the embedded world; a blinky program.
Instead, it's time to do the next best thing, that is spin a motor.

But first the MCU needs to be recognised as a progammable USB device.
For this the boot option needs to be set LOW while the MCU boots.
Therefore, I probably shouldn't have tied the boot option pin to a DIP switch, but to a button.

After switching the boot switch on and off fast enough, the ESP is being recognised as a USB device.
Now let's flash the program to the ESP, after updating the utilities.

# Motors Be Spinning

I've whipped up a program that makes one of the motors spin, by setting the input PWM signals to 0% and 100%.
This should result in one of the motors turning full-speed in one direction.
Which one? No idea... one of them.
After assembly, and powering on, nothing happens once again.

Some more probing with the connectivity meter on the multimeter shows that I have accidentally mirrored the connector.
Even if they weren't just mirrored, recrimping the connector should fix the mixup.
And wheeeeeee - the motor is spinning.
